hard time begins at Ross Correctional
Institution a place of tough choices and
easy mistakes find your place and you
might serve your sentence in peace but
just one wrong move can change
everything
for one year National Geographic
followed the lives of inmates and
officers in the state of Ohio it's a
system bent on making inmates better
filled with convicted felons who might
already be worse got in my face this is
a year of hard time
[Music]
like we're pants up
in the state of Ohio a prison sentence
begins with a bus ride
today Chaz white and 15 other inmates
are making the hour-long journey
to Ross Correctional Institution
and a state with over 50,000 people
behind bars cross is a tough place to do
time
[Music]
and for Chaz white it's about to become
last name your number white six 186 -
I've never been incarcerated Bama life
I'm trying to keep you thinking it this
is really going to hurt me
today is day 1 of a 20-year sentence
it's his first time in prison but the 20
year old already has a sense of what's
to come people do say he's them the
radar and you won't get in trouble but
to me that's not necessarily true
I definitely want to try my best to
avoid clicking up again into a game
while I'm there because I know I know I
was coming under peer pressure to get
myself in more trouble across each
inmate will find their own way to do
time and with every choice will be
certain consequences because here
trouble is always just around the corner
and this afternoon a fight breaks out in
unit 4 a floor officers contain the
incident and lock down the other inmates
okay heart of the two fighters one has
already gone to segregation the other is
on his way to the infirmary some I came
in I thought he would know he'd been
braiding my hair you know we'd be
talking a little bit but it was cool you
feel the reasons behind the fight aren't
clear and despite the vigilance of the
officers survival here can still be a
constant battle
[Music]
with over 2,500 inmates spread over
several camps Ross's a world unto itself
medium security inmates live on the
south side and to the north is closed
security the level reserved for violent
offenders gangs and disciplinary cases
it's a rough population that needs
constant management you can prevent some
things but you can't prevent everything
we're outnumbered on any given day 250
to 1 obviously you don't have them all
behind bars all the time so you have to
have you know ability to communicate
close security is exactly where Chaz
white is heading his first cell
assignment is in 1a on the north side
and this is one house one a
this is a home for the next 20 years
with two tiers lined with two-man cells
every dorm is its own community and
mates are allowed a certain amount of
private property including televisions
and lock boxes for most of the day cell
doors stay open giving inmates the
freedom to interact like Eve on the
block and see new faces
it is like design I see new faces you
want to see we're looking at you so you
know if you got get asked my or anybody
get at you
Chad's may be new to prison but he
already has a leg up on the game
I steal drugs not gonna lie to you start
off with marijuana did not graduated as
people say to sell cocaine and crack
I can make thirty two hundred they're
about six days his seven-year career
hustling drugs ended in January 2009
when he was accused of shooting friend
in the face and the chest and leaving
him for dead he claims there was someone
else who did the shooting but the victim
named Chaz is the culprit when I was in
court after they have read every charge
guilty every charge guilty the judge
said well mr. Wright i sentence you to
twenty seven and a half years in Ohio
Department of Corrections when you tell
me that I was like it was like a dream I
didn't believe it I kind of feel like
it's a struggle going on between myself
sometimes I wanted to look at Ross as
there's an opportunity a positive
opportunity waiting there for me but
people here already see it as my life is
over wait it's already over word I got
all this time it's Arlen prisons are
full of traps and temptations that can
make hard criminals even worse Ohio
system tries to step in the schooling
and programs intended to help inmates
survive prison the right way
but demand for programs is high so
priority goes to the short timers that
puts inmates like Chaz at the bottom of
the list and left to their own devices
on the tiers it's a cat a mouse game
because it's my job to follow the rules
and a lot of inmates will tell you it's
their job to break them
Chaz already slipped before coming to
Ross he spent five weeks at Ohio's
orientation prison where he was
illegally trading commissary with other
inmates and making threats to anyone who
didn't pay up I was getting my hustle on
here also because I used to us as I was
12 I used to hustle so I kind of got
back to my house elf I wish I was I
didn't do it that kind of put me back in
the street that's a bad day now his
first move in 1a is a show of confidence
honestly I'm not nervous enough and I'm
comms on a well I'm ready
he leaves his cell and hits to the tears
I could've sat on my bed sitting chair
got in my bywater
just came I'll just sit down just
looking around filling everybody all
honestly
my first thing is to look soon looking
at me and Sue probably I'm getting to it
first
there's a lot of people I could tell you
for the first 50 people I could tell all
he saw where I could tell
I'll handle pomp I just feel their body
out you could tell as soon as they walk
through the door if they're gonna make
it or not
you either come in here and it either
says Viking or victim
Northside to tear
they call me the sizing book call me
Lord such as no matter people right now
from different camps or CRC just got
here and I instantly who is he
no where is he from he doesn't gain bang
he's probably a target you know I'm
against will fight policeman I see them
out there my age or at least my my so
I'm under to myself which is nothing
that's my daddy what I let him eat he
wants to set his reputation fast because
here at Ross a new target is born every
day Donald Smith is much worse for aware
following the incident in his unit
earlier today ok
[Music]
we call death that's a bad according to
him this wasn't a fight it was an attack
a full-scale ambushed by two other
inmates all for a pair of sneakers
basically they wouldn't come from my
choice that's what it was coming for
give my choice hail naw I'm not about to
let y'all get my shoes anything I got in
there I don't know if they hit me with a
live bad spring what it was but I heard
one of the doom saying man hit him with
the money went to live at the house
gonna die for many for real I seen him
grab my white shoes so I chased that
room and being that's what we got in the
fight in the range I want you in my
shoes cuz that's all I got
[Music]
the inmate he fought is already in
segregation leaving one other attacker
Smith can only heal on wait and hope
justice is served
[Music]
one week into his 20-year sentence Chaz
white is starting to settle in this is
actually just like again old college
campus like I'm in college right now but
just full of hoods just everybody from
everywhere every part is just here
[Music]
with 1 out of 25 residents under
correctional supervision the Ohio prison
system is one of the biggest in America
but the state is trying to cut back the
numbers with a focus on rehabilitation
every inmate is required to get a job
and work for a small income new comers
start off as porters and janitors but
over the years they can work their way
up toward higher skilled jobs with
better pay
at Ross the top tier occupation is
building furniture in the prison factory
and the top salary $80 a month now Chaz
finds himself starting at the bottom
with his first prizm job I'm a porter I
got a porter job and really that's I
call it the CEOs but all you do is clean
here
hain't really meant so much to the job
just sweep the steps and waffle boss
there was a morning shift tell me they
won't call it a job that's O'Neill with
dozens of porters in his dorm alone
chances new job takes only 15 minutes a
day to finish and earns him $12 a month
it was that easy sleeping mom that's it
all prison salaries are low so almost
everyone improvises it's an illegal
system Carter's and trades known as the
hustle it takes money to survive
anywhere you go you've been improved so
if you don't hustle I mean you're not
gonna die but you're not gonna live will
you get the proverbial you know three
hots and a cot you know that's true but
have you seen the three hots the system
offers the essentials three meals a day
basic hygiene and clothing the good
stuff comes from the inmate commissary
[Applause]
from snack food and soda to name-brand
shampoo these are the little extras that
make time bearable bought with money
from friends and family on the outside
but those that don't have the resources
can always fall back on a hustle I have
to have something to eat since I can't
afford to go to the store and buy it I
have to hustle it up yeah it's just like
having a second job in any given dorm
there might be a chef a tailor a lawyer
and most are compensated in instant
coffee the currency in prison
is coffee instead of is that I packed a
cigarette they just tell you by his pace
Luke offers
inmates can only buy coffee crystals
from the inmates store but they parcel
them out as currency at store this
coffee is on like 225 mm 5 cents that's
$4 right here that is $4 coffee is then
traded for other items or services news
a joint did get tattoos so guys tell me
what they want and then just draw it on
paper and that's like my little hustle
in their joint so the thing that sells
hot his girls and fat asses something
would have done you know I'm saying
toaster skulls in there you know I'm
saying you did over sell no matter what
I do this because it's kind of hard
living off $15 a month I made a CD case
for a guy just so he can carry it around
his neck why he works out and stuff
that's what he wanted people start
hearing that you're a tailor you know
the past two weeks I've been sewn like
at least 6 hours a day failure of any of
these points renders enforcement of the
plea unconstitutional my niche is
basically legal work um it's what I do
if you did it as a hustle
you're either number one or number two
because everybody needs a lawyer you
find a jailhouse lawyer will do research
and find that one flaw that will open
that door up for you so you got to be
bulletproof in prison and a jailhouse
lawyer and a store man are probably the
two most important things in prison in
that order for the inmates with money on
their account the most lucrative hustles
running an underground store from a cell
similar to buying wholesale and selling
retail running a store means you have
all the commissary you spend your money
and you give guys two coffees for three
back or ten soups for 15 soups back and
that's how you make your your money
this is just my store as opposed to the
commissary store I buy extra chips and
soups and coffees and guys get hungry
they come and get them and I go out here
and beat the streets and I find guys to
take the product off my hand and bring
it back at an interest rate and you know
cuz I don't eat chips myself
but I buy him because other guy is
eating Chaz a former street hustler has
already found his piece of the action
here coffee is like we need to be plant
space and just standing by the table the
cost of my parking here but I know what
I do a set of coffee everybody else they
sell it but I sell real real real big
shots cuz I don't drink coffee I'm
selling big shots for the same price
they sell it for the little ones so I'm
getting the most business I buy about
five bags of coffee they probably make
around close to a hundred dollars
I'll keep this boom and that's what I'll
call the goal me every hustle is a
behind the scenes Enterprise because in
Ohio trading or bartering of any kind is
illegal even something small like
selling coffee can create debt and
incite jealousy officers try to stay on
top of hustles with shakedowns to root
out extra commissary and contraband
just a routine shake down the block to
have you pick a block a day and go
through it check out all the sells real
quick
[Music]
despite the prisons efforts the hustles
continue fueling the underground economy
and where there's an economy
there's also crime some people move
drugs in prison
some people rich commissary stores in
prison some people run extortion game in
prison that's what I brought you don't
got to pay me anything for around me got
it paid me juice Reynolds is a prison
thief like a villagers come back through
the commissary whatever I wait till you
get yourself right before you shut the
door I'll come in behind me you know
what time it is
I've gone there with my gloves and my
mouthpiece in and hand him a laundry bag
right now you come back if it ain't feel
I'm half looking different I'm looking
different
now wanna say I was a bad kid I was just
Aventuras juice Reynolds life and crime
started too early he says that at 13 he
stole bikes and cars then moved on to
homes and stores I tell them they know
what time it is what time it is
open up them cash registers open up the
safe at 16 he was caught robbing a
restaurant at gunpoint
Bernie himself eight years in closed
security what worked for him on the
outside
he learned to bring inside the prison
walls I just keep kept the same as I was
on the streets the only thing different
is I don't got a gun you don't say I use
my hands I guess you have no other way
to make money but then to take it from
somebody you know let's not glorify it
and call it a hustle I mean thief is
just simply that he's a thief it's not a
hard job it's not even a talented job to
do it like that you know I'm sorry they
young they don't know you know Sandy's
dudes don't even know how to breathe
you're gonna know who the thieves are
but that thief got about three or four
guys five guys he might be in a gang you
know I'm saying so he got him he got his
gang rolling with him there's nothing
for them to do but strong-arm somebody
only a strong survive you know I'm
saying and I think if I was bleeding
somebody do it to me you know so I just
know I'd rather me doing it to somebody
yesterday or somebody done to me you
know we are amazing
we all in here for doing something wrong
you don't do that oh I had no sympathy
for guys like juice this is just part of
prison reality everyone has to survive
and everyone is fair game
[Music]
over in the infirmary Donald Smith is
starting to recover from his attack last
week it's an ironic fate for someone who
was here on an eight-year sentence for
aggravated robbery hey I've got people
in this state I want to beat it no one I
was doing dirt out down the street is
catching up with me
[Music]
I'm here to better myself educate myself
I know a lot of these dudes in here from
the street like I let him know I'm not
on that stuff man oh that's my stuff Oh
I know it is come catching up with me
[Music]
tell find you everywhere no good right
thing you know out there on the street
try to do the right thing do the right
thing
Joe finds you
right now things may be looking up for
him the prison has a name of the
possible second attacker and they've
brought them in for investigation
if juice Reynolds is found guilty at the
attack the punishment could be anything
from a stint in segregation to extra
charges that could add to his prison
time
this could be a major setback for the
prison predator I call it the den of
iniquity where violence is respected
more than intelligence you want to do it
for real you want to do it for real I
think so the person doesn't care whether
or not you have intelligence or not
in everyday life and here it's it's a
matter of a person disliking you for who
you are what you're about what you look
like
whether you've got money and another
person doesn't have money you have envy
and envy is the breed of all hate inside
of the penitentiary system the north
side of Ross Correctional Institution
has some of the hardest felons in Ohio
it's a tough population to manage and an
even tougher one to break into one month
into a sentence Chaz white is finding
his way and moving up his coffee trade
is gaining momentum and he's learning
that in prison money leads to power
I don't even hear how month but I think
it's a couple dudes in here that's
already jealous of me because within my
first week I bought these new pair of
shoes down here three bucks and I bought
these sandals and I bought apart a pair
of Jordans for $60 and now I got new
clothes I got a bunch of new clothes you
don't see me in that raggedy no more I
know some people jealous of me not even
gonna lie make myself sound like a king
but I already got followers the popular
in years someone like the popularity on
the streets because the store man or the
dude I got all the goodies that
everybody won or whatever it's like
popular I'm the youngest dude in here no
he's older dudes following just because
I'm making this a little bit of money as
he rises in status
he's also clicking up with a group of
Crips in one a he's real new so I could
understand him 1 get his name up Stacey
Erised sees potential in Chaz to climb
the ranks
I like to add a lot man you know I'm
saying like you know that's best let my
little homie for real and I but I he he
got a lot of time to do you know I'm
saying and now he's young filming and he
got a lot of time to do he wants to get
a name out there for his self and um he
wants to really get it established a
dormice toughest one a is where
reputations are made and broken but not
everyone needs a piece of the action
Troy Mary is another recent arrival
but unlike Chaz white he isn't trying to
make a name for himself after two
previous sentences served at Ross his
reputation is set in stone frost
Correctional Institution is where I've
grown up at
[Music]
I've been involved with the white Aryan
resistance been in the whole because of
gang-related activity I've experienced a
level of violence that I wouldn't wish
on my worst enemy
his third time here could be a short
stint he has a parole hearing coming up
that will determine if he can leave
prison early if he slips he could spend
more years in prison
well that may be an incentive to stay
clean for someone like Mary it's still
no guarantee drama jumps off you got you
got the a B's in here you got blood you
got Crips you got everything you can
think of if it escalates these guys get
out of control who's it gonna affect
this won't affect me if they come my way
do I need to sharpen something up real
quick do I need to get a lock in a sock
what do I need to do you know I mean to
check me I'm a convict I just get
involved in things start happening out
here that I don't want and it's starting
to affect me I get upset there's one of
those things being institutionalized
wherever you want to call it it just
comes natural to you they bring the
drama inside this cell it'll be a
mistake right there man I'd be a mistake
these days 1a is a minefield a couple of
gang fights have created major tensions
on the tiers leaving both inmates and
officers on high alert we work here
every day we can tell when guys are not
doing what they normally do every day
you just you can feel tension sometimes
there's two people that were two from
two different cities that animosity
because of something that they were
representing and names got called an
apologies didn't get said so it got deep
real quick usually be gang fire city
fights Columbus versus Cleveland
Cleveland ours is systematic you
definitely don't want to let things get
out of hand
and it can explode into a lot bigger
things than just two guys fighting it's
real car you know you got these guys
we're out here playing chess checkers
games you know like I collect it
Oh funny game put it that and it's
weekly my uh for someone like chives an
unstable atmosphere can be an
opportunity
half of Isis I'll be here
there's two quick
jazz is looking funny but it as that's
exactly what he wants for China that's
gonna be like a huge boost in his ego
you know up stamp like all manchild yeah
we don't we don't want war which as it's
gonna be like it's what we call like a
booty bully status like so now he can
blow through here like and nobody really
say nothing to him I respect it but I
just wish he would be more more like
patient and huh man just more settled
down to me three flights in the week
three fights in the day still winning
beat so much at the end of the day the
money the power and the muscle are all
about making his place at Ross setting
his reputation so he could do time on
his own terms
before punishment every inmate has a
pre-hearing to see if there's enough
evidence for a disciplinary trial
Rose you're charged with rule 19 which
is fighting with without a weapon
including the instigation over the
perpetuation of a fight
now are you guilty or not guilty what
happened down straight up the cord table
yeah I see the one doe I was all bloody
chaser m8 Mosley then let's think I know
and make ma ma mo zone
top raised fighting each other by light
down a lockdown about ten minutes later
they come get me what they search me I
had no it was blood everywhere
I had no blood on me no scars no nothing
so they told you that you your name had
come up after that yeah they told me my
name came up there were no witnesses of
juice fighting but he's a self-described
troublemaker and thief
since the officer has named you in the
conduct report as one of the
participants you will have to go to our
ID
Joe any witnesses Stanley cor what do
you expect card to testify to I mean
yeah I was at the do card save me when
everybody was upstairs fighting I
thought the card table until when they
told us to lock down all right young man
you and just a little bit is enough
suspicion for a trial and his will be
later this week
Prison is in of itself a community with
a pecking order and a natural disaster
that takes place every day every day
somebody gets in a fight every day
somebody goes to a hall every day
somebody gets extorted
in a facility of over 2,000 convicted
felons there are bound to be rule
breakers and when they get caught they
come to segregation to jail within the
prison
[Music]
inmates call it the hole where they
await trial and serve out their
sentences for anything from fighting to
disrespecting officers this is where
time slows to a crawl the better part of
twenty three hours a day are spent
locked down in a Cell inmates get one
hour a day for exercise either indoors
or outside in cages any movement
requires an officer and a set of
handcuffs how long an inmate stays is
determined by the rules infraction board
or RI B which serves as both judge and
jury sir on the above date and time I
see a Montgomery was conducting a Cell
search in for B cell 211 when I found an
8 inch shank hidden beneath the bottom
dresser drawer my just morning her he
told me he'd been who the knife was in
there they hear the charges determined
guilt and choose a punishment he pled
not guilty the panel in fact found you
guilty the panel believes that homemade
weapon was found in yourself penalty to
be imposed is 15 days disciplinary
control no credit time sir it isn't a
science but it's the next best thing to
a proper trial I doing young man stand
right there on deck for today's board
are Frisco Moseley and juice Reynolds
the two accused of attacking and robbing
Donald Smith first up is mostly the man
seen fighting with Smith on the tear so
what was this entire incident over I
just told you dude just came right now
the top rings like so why would you come
out just run up up up on you and swing
on like woozy the panel felt you guilty
of this based on yourself permission of
swinging back on inmates sniff out t
swarm on you to panel find you guilty of
the rule 19 violation it's a clear
verdict ten days of segregation for
fighting
but juice is a bit more complicated he
is here on a tip not on solid evidence
how do you wish depleted his rule 19
violation not guilty downstairs I was at
the court table playing next thing I
know I see the inmate Smith fight
chasing the other inmate it was chasing
me on the top ranch they start fighting
on the top range CEO told us to lock it
down at the time this altercation took
place where exactly were you at at the
court tape when I seen him just on top
and he was chasing do a run at our
brains out at the courts a defendant's
in front of the board are allowed to
call a witness to back up their story
but juices witness only muddies the
waters he has called you for a witness
here today I really don't know what
happened I was making something to eat
it was almost counts on
I thought - is that the cartel yeah when
that went down it was almost counseling
so we're always met when he was making
me sign my waiver Mike wait you only see
it at this time
it was in my seal when the CEOs broke
the ho when they told everybody to start
locking it down that's when uh everybody
split from the table and he no I'm
saying people start making a fool we've
stated use down are setting a car table
yeah I was when it happened they want to
see us tell everybody break up lock it
down
that's when I wanted to sail to get the
bowls and then I read out today I want
to go lock down I locked you straight
down
his alibi seems unclear to the board is
there anything else we say but just like
in a real trial with no concrete
evidence there is no guilty they may run
the panel file you're not guilty to rule
19 in violation due to insufficient
evidence
so juice is free to go beating a charge
at Riv is a rare thing at Ross and today
juice caught a lucky break I believed it
they believed it I thought it was gonna
be worse than what it really was though
because with killing do it in the sale
dough just has some exclusive George I
hadn't happened you know I'm saying
right now
you know they represented nothing to
meet the person who does money ching
ching when I saved him the dollar saw if
you know the robbery was a setup a
successful hit by juice and his crew so
my homeboy act like is about to braid
his hair he opened up the door from I
shut the door like listen I'm gonna ask
you one time what Hills that he tried to
play dumb so I got to kick him in his
face stomp him out I guess he regained
composure or whatever so now we had to
punish him again
snap him out again kicking him in his
face by they block he ran out chasing us
I thought he had a knife so that's why I
ran I've got to run on top brain that's
why well y'all came in you want you see
me because I didn't get caught it was
the prison version of a perfect crime
now he has other business to attend to
gathering the troops and tracking down
the stolen sneakers he's hoping to move
the shoes but first he has to find them
in prison a new pair of Nike Jordans can
sell for over $200 nobody on his crew
seems to know where they are cuz they'll
sit Chris Cole won't get a $4 you come
you got oh I guess on my tooth and there
was a saw while he was beating his case
in the hall he may have lost the spoils
this seems that even in prison there's
no honor among thieves
don't say I'm just something with my
product set that's why I don't unpack
nothing
no I'm saying it's gonna be here or I'll
go she was going back to the home for
another flight I'm going on now for mine
[Music]
for the last two months Chaz has been
trying to build a kind of future in
prison to set up an easier way to do his
twenty years but today his past caught
up with him pissed off yesterday now let
in the mail the wrong kind of let it I
thought I was kneeling for my lord sakes
it's over and I walked from state Ohio I
gotta pay restitution the letter is an
order for Chaz to pay restitution to the
victim he's convicted of shooting twice
and the debt is $20,000 once it goes
through almost anything on his account
from friends family whereas $12 a
month's salary will go toward repayment
with no more money on his books he can't
run his store and prison terms Chazz is
bankrupt
no money there's no survival here I
won't beat about nothing no hygiene no
nothing and they take and everything I
get whatever gets in on there so the
money I got him there right now had he
taken then you can just hustle for
nothing they take my money I won't be to
develop nothing at all just move on take
my money indeed there's one place he can
go for help okay just grab streaky
shooter and that's Ronald dudas one days
jailhouse lawyer okay you do want to
object to to withdraw this money from
your account do you want to mark down do
dudas is not a real lawyer he's here on
multiple charges including fraud and
corruption as a white-collar criminal at
Ross his prison hustle was offering
legal advice to guys with nowhere else
to turn
here's what we're gonna do what I did
was I got a motion here for you says I
don't know what they gave you there but
I did this one up before for somebody
it's a motion to vacate payment of court
costs fines restitution requirement
there's a 70/30 percent chance of the
court saying no we're not going to give
this to you
we may have to file ten motions in the
next three or four years but it'll come
to fruition at the end so you don't want
to have a whole lot of money until we
answer this I wouldn't have a whole lot
coming in on your books I got a couple
hundred on it right now
you got a couple hard on there now
sausage to spend a hundred that stool
absolutely
and then next time spend another hundred
get yourself all the hygiene and stuff
that you need buy extra and keep that
till we get this rectified it'll work
with Judas helping him appeal the
restitution Chazz will try to clear his
account
this commissary might be my last one
though just telling me spend as much
money as I can just in case they're you
trying to take my month I mean this
could be my last time buying something
out he was a good chance he will spend
the next 20 years broke and for someone
used to living the high life that's a
problem you can't survive offer $9 a
month just think about you being on the
street had making making nine dollars a
month it's the same thing here what you
gonna do for $9 a month you gonna switch
a game you wanna start robbing it's
gonna bring the real Chaz or long white
out to be honest with you I'm good
supervising them choice I'm gonna have
to get super violent super greedy crime
is what I call it i'ma have to they take
my money I mean what else my want half
I'm gonna have some money like I told
you earlier I'm passin money my fuck I'm
a hassle fool my buck for Chaz prison
poverty is not an option
and if he can't make his own money there
may be a new jailhouse robber at Ross
[Music]
I guess it's the no respect you young
people you go around stealing their
stuff okay
[Music]
Donald Smith is rethinking his own
strategy for doing time now out of the
infirmary
he's just been dealt another blow based
on the evidence he received a 15 day
sentence for fighting a punishment made
worse by the news that juice got off
scot-free
[Music]
that ain't right I'm not going back on
the compound on the 12th I know if I go
back out there and then gonna be right
you know just things I got my mind
things I'd do to these people man do
that to me I will never go home
Smith knows that if he fights back he
could risk losing early release or get
more charges if he doesn't fight he'll
be an even bigger target for other
robbers and gangs I'll have to I don't
have to fight but I know we're not
saying I will I'm long time I know I
want to get out only to go to another
institution that's what they could do
send me anywhere maybe up north
somewhere anywhere
he's asked for a transfer to another
prison the only way he feels he can
survive Ross now is to leave
[Music]
this isn't an experience that's gonna go
away you know it'll be over one day but
it won't go away if you want an easy
time you can make your time easy if you
want a hard time you can make it hard
segregation time is over for Donald
Smith but true to his word he's staying
pretty hey Smith you dance at the
compound you going back to the compound
I won't go back on my comp I don't want
to deal with these people but I don't
want to see them do they take me and rob
me
I'm saying - I see these dudes they're
gonna be nice
the ticket reads out approximately 8:30
a.m. and me Smith 5 9 5 7 24 refused to
leave 5a is that correct yes ok why did
you refuse to come out
I don't know I mean I just want
and go back out to your compound why
something going on out there
yeah a lot that's why I want to compare
your compound
Tanveer solution
we I don't have any control of sweater
you could transfer it or not
[Music]
as request for a transfer as in but if
it doesn't go through his remaining
prison years may be here in the hole
they gonna keep doing that stuff man
what they're doing they're exempt people
some people like that man
right people like that man get messed up
man faint moves slow back here would
like you still study and I've got my
Spanish book I was studying on my
Spanish and also I'm back here on the
back you for a while I like this keep
studying or my school with all that has
happened Smith still looks to the future
and prepares for a life back on the
street
[Music]
it's transfer time at Ross Correctional
Institution when inmates board the buses
once again to be reshuffled throughout
the state some moves are expected others
are not try Mary got word early this
morning that he's off to another prison
the surprise transfer marks the end of
his third stay at Ross and the start of
a new chapter behind bars it doesn't
even matter whether it's Ohio State
Penitentiary is lucasville it's Lebanon
it doesn't matter you know you you are
what you make of the time that you do
turn around face man that's what it is
to me I have to hurry up now
to get nowhere I'm not going anywhere
I'm inside of a prison I'm pulling this
out of a prison on a van and I want to
go to another prison
[Music]
Donald Smith is also heading out after
three months of self-imposed exile in
the hole his transfer request has come
through he's leaving Ross for another
close security prison there you'll have
a clean slate and the wisdom of the
tough lesson is burned here going
somewhere new here I was I think I was a
little too flashy the things I had I was
a target made myself a target I'll be
ready for another situation like this
I'll say Oh common and gonna be much
differences still in prison it's not the
prison
four inmates
surviving Ross means choosing your
hustle obey the rules or break them join
the game or break it apart here the
choices come fast to the consequences
even faster we get preyed on no say we
give prey don't kill his give prey folk
over in for a juice Reynolds has settled
back in he's tracked down the shoes he
stole from Smith and sold them for
commissary anything gun-control whole
situation was good yep unpack great they
got silly back in the compound for a
little minute it was going you know so
was I've got it back that was gone for
order to beat thing you've got to live
in my shoes you know I'm saying they
live in a simple life out there you
don't say it inside the prison is it's
not to say kill or be killed
for now juice will hang back but always
with an eye out for his next mark nah
can't keep nothing on me you know
police coming here search
I'm gonna lay low for a little minute
though my name is kind of hot right now
you know I'm saying so I'm just waiting
my name Clara which things cool back
down
back to the basics to cross the north
side and won a Chaz white is still
fighting his restitution and taking
stock of his situation with no money on
his books and a long sentence ahead the
street hustler is setting a new course
behind bars all the knees the wheel I
got to eat I got needle got to Barrow
onions the wheel right here some good
money to absolute I saw Lonnie not too
bad he's trying to make a battery pair
he's building a crude tattoo gun and
he's almost open for business with
another illegal way to make his
commissary yeah you see either saw him
get some tattoos or start shooting come
aboard a new hustle it's just he's Punk
I'll take my money so if any yell 110
that's wrong